hey this is Sasha welcome back to yet
another BBK performance power series
video today we're really excited to give
you a sneak peek into some of the latest
performance Bolton's soon at the BBK
production line our 85 millimeter
drive-by-wire throttle body and the
free-flowing cold air induction system
for the 2010 and up 6.2 liter Ford
Raptor let's get started by taking a
look at the BBK performance throttle
body like all of our Power Plus series
the auto bodies this 85 millimeter unit
features an aircraft quality CNC
machined aluminum casting along with OEM
components for a perfect fit like many
of our other drive-by-wire models this
unit is fully assembled from the BBK
factory with OEM quality drive motor for
a simple bolt on and plug-in swap
designed to work with the stock or
aftermarket tune our drive-by-wire
system is an incredibly easy
installation so you can bolt it on in
just a few minutes without using any
special tools and then hit the streets
or if you're using your Raptor like you
should be the dirty before we give you a
look at how simple the installation
really is let's check out the baseline
dyno run to see what kind of numbers the
mean 6.2 liter puts down to the wheels
three engine 11 horsepower and 320
foot-pounds of torque that's pretty good
for a full-size truck pushing massive 35
inch tires now let's install the 85
millimeter BBK throttle body and see
what kind of gains we can get first
disconnect the mass air flow sensor and
remove the two vent hoses going into the
factory intake system then loosen the
two 10 millimeter mounting bolts that
secure the factory intake to the vehicle
also remove the clip on the passenger
side of the intake using a set of pliers
unclip the three clips at the air box
and remove the entire system out of the
vehicle don't forget to remove the
rubber coupler from the stock unit
disconnect the electrical connector at
the throttle body and remove the stock
unit from the vehicle bolt on the new
BBK throttle body and reconnect the
connector then just reinstall the air
intake system and you're all set to go
now that everything is in place let's
get the truck back on the dyno and see
what kind of gains we get from this
power Plus Series throttle body
321 horsepower and 328 foot-pounds of
torque that's a 10 horsepower and 8
foot-pounds over stock pretty darn good
for 15 minutes worth of work I can't
wait to see what sort of gains we get
when we couple this with the BBK cold
air induction system but before we do
that let's take this bad boy for a
little spin around the block
now that we've got our Raptor back in
the shop let's take a look at the BBK
cold air induction system which we offer
in either Chrome or blackout series
finishes as with all of our Power Plus
Series intake systems this raptor kit
will work with your stock or aftermarket
tune and comes complete with a washable
High Flow conical air filter full shroud
and three and a half inch high flow
Inlet for an easy do-it-yourself
installation by opening up the cool air
intake charge into the heavy breathing
6.2 liter we should see significant
gains in horsepower and torque without
sacrificing fuel economy not to mention
the benefit of a nice aggressive sound
and some serious improvement in throttle
response let's take a look at how simply
assembly and installation is then get
our Raptor back on the dyno and see how
much we've gained with these two simple
bolt ons the first few steps for
installing the cold air induction system
are the same as our throttle body
installation starting by removing the
entire factory intake system now remove
the mass airflow sensor from the stock
intake and transfer it directly to the
BBK cold air tube using the supplied
hardware also be sure to install the
supplied rubber grommet and straight
fitting and insert the supplied plug
into the hole on the bottom of the BBK
air filter place the cold air shroud
into the vehicle on the bottom half of
the factory airbox and use the original
three clamps to secure it down install
the blue BBK coupler and BBK intake tube
to the throttle body remove the factory
vent hose and replace it with the
supplied 3/8 inch hose then connect the
valve cover hose and replace vent hose
into the BBK intake tube install the new
high flow filter plug in the mass air
sensor and double check that all your
clamps are tight and you're all done
you're going to want to make sure that
you start the vehicle and let it idle
for a few minutes just to ensure that
there are no leaks and that the check
now that we've got our system in place
let's do another dyno run to see what we
got
there you have it 332 horsepower and 329
foot-pounds of torque that's a whole 21
horsepower and 9 foot-pounds overstock
using the 85 millimeter performance
throttle body and the high flow BBK cold
air induction system you can expect even
more power when used in conjunction with
a custom tune or an aftermarket exhaust
in just an hour of installation time we
see impressive gains in a majority of
the rpm range giving the already
powerful 6.2 liter Raptor just what it
needs to really open up and break loose
that's all we've got for today but be
sure to keep an eye on our website at
BBK performance comm for more
information on these horsepower inducing
Raptor products